This is an export of orginal Basin Whitepaper from 2021.  (Orginial is in Google Docs!)

basin.global whitepaper v12.2021
This is an import of the early basin whitepaper from December 2021.  Previous iterations were under the CMPND name (August-October 2021)
whitepaper
Only when the last tree has been cut down, the last fish been caught, and the last stream poisoned, will we realize we cannot eat money.
-Osage saying, circa 1893
By bringing economics and ecology together, we can help save the natural world at what may be the last minute – and in doing so, save ourselves.
- Sir David Attenborough
summary.
basin.global is a diverse multidisciplinary community creating transdisciplinary climate solutions that restore, regenerate and conserve land. This builds natural capital in support and expansion of the global commons. Our projects:
reduce and remove carbon;
restore and protect biodiversity, habitat and ecosystems;
and improve human health and wealth.
The basin.community embodies the saying “global starts local” and owns/operates at the project/real property/landscape level providing funding and operational mechanisms for on the ground multi-stakeholder natural climate solutions (NCS) initiatives. Funding comes from the basin.fund, which basinDAO governs as a permanent evergreen fund for global commons stewardship.
basin.global projects and properties will eventually be on the sovereign public basin.chain that is run by the basin.protocol. The basin.chain is our own chain that manages our own properties in perpetuity. The basin.protocol is an open source project that facilitates multi-stakeholder real assets on the blockchain for transparent long term governance, operation, funding and composable interchain connectivity for layered property rights.
why.
CRISIS
The world is facing multiple interconnected and unprecedented crises, among them:
Nature Loss
Half of the world’s GDP, $44 Trillion, is at risk due to Nature Loss. Our economies, and us, are embedded within nature - not external to it. Commonly known as the biodiversity crisis, one million animals and plants are now threatened with extinction, approximately 150 species are permanently lost daily.
Carbon Removal
Carbon reduction is not enough. To slow or possibly reverse global warming, we must remove billions and billions of tonnes of CO2e from the atmosphere as fast as possible.
Climate Justice
The effects of climate change are not distributed equally. Certain geographies and people will suffer disproportionate loss of income and physical, financial, human, and social assets. Investment has already stopped flowing to these areas/groups.
PROBLEM
We need better, faster, more effective, scalable ways to solve these crises. The systems and organizations that got us into this mess won’t get us out.
Urgency and Scale
"Code Red For Humanity" (IPCC August 2021): Over the next 20 years, global temperature is expected to reach or exceed 1.5°C of warming.
Many scientists believe that crossing the 1.5°C mark could initiate another extinction-level event. It is the point where many natural systems begin to cross points of no return, triggering lasting, irreversible changes
The evidence is clear: the urgency of the moment calls for immediate action. A monumental effort is needed to limit warming to even 1.5°C; without this, we are looking at warming well over 2°C.
Adaptability
The 2021 joint IPBES/IPCC report concludes that many climate solutions are too narrowly focused and should instead be holistic so as to encompass the climate-biodiversity-society nexus.
Resiliency or what the IPBES calls “Adaptive Capacity” is a major component: The ability of a system to adjust to climate variability and extremes in order to moderate potential damages, to take advantage of opportunities or to cope with the consequences.
Systemic Change
Climate change could cut the world economy by $23 Trillion in 2050. SwissRe insurance giant warns that: "Poor nations would be particularly hard hit, but few would escape". While capitalism has been a driving force behind numerous innovations, its relentless focus on short term profit has shortchanged the overall wellbeing of society and the environment. Priority of shareholders over stakeholders has created vast income, wealth and quality of life inequalities. The terms “externalities” and
“deferred maintenance” are misleading and harmful. Things that are external to one are internal to another and things either need to be maintained or they do not.
Sources: IPCC, WEF, IPBES, UN, Dasgupta Review, NASA
OPPORTUNITY
Limiting global warming to ensure a habitable climate and protecting biodiversity are mutually supporting goals, and their achievement is essential for sustainably and equitably providing benefits to people.
- IPBES IPCC joint workshop report June 2021
Carbon, nature, people, and the global economy are all inextricably linked. The success of one depends on the other.
While the technological carbon removal industry scales its solutions, nature is our best ally. Scientists assert that to prevent a mass extinction crisis, support a growing global population, and address climate change, we must restore and conserve at least 30% of the planet by 2030 (30x30). Many experts believe that number should be closer to 50% (Half Earth movement). Reversing the decline in ecosystems and biodiversity requires an average investment of $711 billion per year thru 2030.
However, forecasts show that the new nature economy could generate up to $10.1 trillion in annual business value and create 395 million jobs by 2030. In comparison, while positive, sucking carbon from the air is only predicted to be a trillion dollar business by 2050.
In our greatest problems, lay our greatest opportunities.
Sources: UNCBD, Paulson Institute, WEF, SwissRe, Bloomberg
how.
The urgency of the moment calls for immediate action at the climate-biodiversity-social system nexus.
Inclusive Wealth
A holistic way of doing business must be considered and demonstrated. basin.global operates under the Inclusive Wealth model, a way that accounts for natural capital and social capital in addition to financial capital.
Multidisciplinary Approach / Transdisciplinary Results
The challenges the world faces are complex and interconnected. They will not be solved by individuals or groups working in silos. They will be solved by those individuals and groups working together collectively.
Collaboration at Speed and Scale
Structured as a DAO (Decentralized Autonomous Organization), basin.global embodies the principles of “the whole is greater than the sum of its parts” and “if you want to go fast, go alone; if you want to go far, go together”. basin.global is a way for both the individual and collective to go fast and far at the same time.
Convergence
While the pandemic was negative on many accounts, it has now set the stage for our world and systems to be positively restored and regenerated using all the tools available to us. Web3, DAO's, DeFi, blockchain, dApps, cloud/AI, crypto when combined with web2 tools (social/video etc) and emerging movements such as ReFi (Regenerative Finance) will allow us to build the world we want to live in as well as leave a legacy for our children and their children.
Carbon Markets
Carbon prices are rising fast: In the EU alone, carbon prices have risen more than 60% since the beginning of 2021. More legislation, possible carbon tax schemes, lack of supply and significant demand from net zero corporations will push CO2e prices much much higher. Higher carbon prices means more capital for better quality climate projects and/or buyers seeking new alternatives to traditional offset purchases, both of which basin.global will offer.
Natural Capital
While carbon removal sales are a way to fund basin.global projects, efforts such as the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD), NYSE Natural Asset Companies (NAC’s) and related natural capital accounting frameworks set the stage for a natural capital based and backed economy and currencies. Further ESG compliance and voluntary commitments will increase demand for Natural Capital assets and services. In our opinion, the Natural Capital markets will be exponentially greater and more impactful than Carbon. basin.global will supply both Carbon and Natural Capital assets.
Real Property
Herein these two quotes lies the predicament we currently face, both as a society and as the basin.community:
“How can you buy or sell the sky, the warmth of the land? The idea is strange to us. If we do not own the freshness of the air and the sparkle of the water, how can you buy them from us?”
1854, Chief Seattle to the US Government
“Buy land, they're not making it anymore.”
Mark Twain
Ideally the Commons would be just that: Common to everyone. However our world economic and legal systems are not set up to adequately provide for and protect the Commons. The world economy has been built for extraction and commoditization of our natural resources. Ecosystem Services are defined as “nature’s contributions to people”, and the value of these services and contributions are not priced into our financial system; they urgently need to be.
Like it or not, ecosystem services move through and natural resources are derived from real estate or real property. With the exception of large bodies of water, navigable rivers and the atmosphere all the natural resources can be owned one way or another, either by government (which is supposed to be public ownership but often is not) or privately. While basin.global is setting out to create systemic change, it is appropriate in the meantime to use the system “we got”. To that end we are using the existing legal systems and protections provided to private property owners to our advantage.
Furthermore, real property, while capital intensive, is also capital attractive. Under long standing customs and rule of law in most jurisdictions, real assets can easily be bought, sold, financed, leased and freely utilized.
We are currently witnessing the beginning of a surge of property turnover that will alter the future of natural resources around the world. For example, by 2030, 400 million acres of farmland will change hands in the USA alone, as farmers retire. This transition is a critical window of opportunity to protect, restore, and rematriate private lands and the natural capital they contain.
Values and Principles
The basin.community is interconnected just like a watershed or ecosystem. In this nascent environment of DAO’s and remote work, a shared system of trust is not only needed, it is required. These are our core values and key principles:
Core Values
Legacy
Authenticity
Transparency
Trust
Empathy
Abundance
Inclusivity
Adaptivity
Sustainability
Diversity
Key Principles
Stakeholders not Shareholders - all investment and operational decisions take all stakeholders into account.
Capital(s) - we respect and value all types of capital but focus on natural, social and financial.
IIR (Income, Impact, Return) not IRR (Internal Rate of Return)
Income: money is a necessity in our lives, allows us to take care of our families and do the work we do. The capital invested should produce an annual cash return.
Impact: negative societal and environmental impacts are minimized while positive impacts are enhanced and maximized.
Return: there must be both a financial and impact return on investment.
Longtermism - We make every investment with the consideration of future generations. Funds are open ended/evergreen/perpetual.
Clouds and Dirt - We create in the clouds and manifest in the dirt. Can’t have one without the other.
If it is not fun why do it? - Who says important work can’t be fun?
“What good shall I do this day?” Ben Franklin - we ask ourselves daily
Grounded in Reality:
Do real sh!t - Real data, real measurability
Real People - sorry anon/pseudo’s can help but only on certain bounties
“RWA” - Real World Assets: The metaverse is cool but we do live on a tangible and resource-constrained earth. We bridge the two.
Grow your stake and eat it too: we work to build the network value.
#investable - to create maximum IIR, investments are institutional size and quality
Accessible - open to contributors of all shapes and sizes
Crypto / Culture / Computing - digitally native tech and media DAO that operates in a quick, nimble and progressive fashion.
Nana korobi ya oki - Fall down seven times, get up eight.
Show Your Work - we build in public and share best practices to scale solutions
Abide by basin.covenants: discretion, privacy and non-circumvention
Global Starts Local - cumulative local action leads to global change - We are organized by river basin.
who.
basin.community is a multidisciplinary group of people and organizations creating transdisciplinary solutions and results for the climate, carbon and nature problems people face. It is made up of people from all over the world with diverse backgrounds, resources and skills.
People
Community contributors primarily want to give their individual gifts to the world by doing important and meaningful work. They are specialists who are skilled in science, technology, finance, real estate, governance, networks, philanthropy, web3, community building, art, design, business, sales, philosophy and more. While we appreciate the ethos of privacy inherent in the crypto community, basinDAO is doing projects in the real world. We have and need “real” people with real skills and experience as part of the Core Team but do also have non-mission critical opportunities/bounties to those who wish to remain anonymous or pseudonymous.
Organizations
The 1972 album “Free to Be... You and Me” has a song jokingly titled “Parents are People” and the lyrics continue, “People with Children”. In the same sense, “Corporations Are People” and in our case we assert that Protocols should be treated this way under the law. In most countries, corporations and organizations are and historically have been treated as legal persons that have a right to enter into contracts and have many of the same rights as natural persons.
From a practical standpoint, we simply view corporations and organizations not as people themselves but made up of people. And in our case, these are people who care, people who want to make change, people who want to use their position and influence to reinvent the system from within.
With an unprecedented effort being needed to slow and reverse global warming we welcome these people and their organizations regardless of size. These organizations include but are not limited to business, philanthropy, public corporations, family offices, government, academia, faith based organizations, and of course other DAO’s.
And while a certain subset of people may consider this “sleeping with the enemy”, we are open to collaboration with industries that historically have been “more part of the problem than part of the solution”. This includes banks, oil companies, private equity firms, hedge funds, big Ag, big Pharma, insurance companies and mass CPG companies. We welcome the opportunity to work with these groups to collectively “right the ship”.
Participation
There are many opportunities for contribution and engagement within the basin.community. People and organizations can contribute 1) social capital such as time, skills, knowledge, wisdom and networking as well as 2) financial capital. Both types of capital are equally important in basin.global.
what.
Global Starts Local
basin.global is a collaboration between local on the ground stakeholders and the overall basin.community. The results happen at the project/property/landscape level but are supported, sustained and built upon by the joint effort of the network participants.
Decentralized Autonomous Organizational Structure
basin.global is the collective group of all basin.tributaries and is the general trade name of our all activities.
basinDAO is the community governance structure that directs basin.global activity by democratic on-chain transparent vote.
basin.company is the operating company that carries out the directives of basinDAO.
basin.fund is the funding mechanism and holding company that capitalizes and owns natural capital assets primarily composed of real property and associated real property rights. basin.fund is structured as a permanent capital vehicle (PCV or evergreen) for Global Commons stewardship.
basin.foundation is the non-profit arm of basin.global that funds projects and properties that are not financially feasible under other models. basin.foundation also actively solicits and accepts real property donations for restoration, regeneration and conservation by basinDAO and basin.community members.
basin.studio is the art, design, content, media and activism arm of basin.global.
basin.tributaries are the autonomous properties and projects of basin.global. The Tributaries are operated in conjunction with the local stakeholders and/or project developers in context of the basin.global principles and values. Each tributary has a custom project specific structure with a defined value exchange and in most cases is set up as a stand alone LLC or SPV (Special/Single Purpose Vehicle).
basin.chain is the composable sovereign blockchain being developed by basin.global for multi-stakeholder on-chain title registry, ownership, governance, funding and operation of basin.global properties. Using the basin.protocol, basin.chain provides connectivity to interoperable blockchains and DeFi dApps to solve for initial and ongoing project funding, operations and maintenance, insurance, property rights liquidity and an infinite number of other potential composable interchain plugins.
basin.protocol is the open source code that runs basin.chain. The basin.global use case for basin.protocol is for operating and funding the global commons on the basin.chain. We see the protocol having many other use cases for governments, schools, institutions, private property owners, REITs, HOA's and more. Any multi-stakeholder group that needs to operate and fund property for the long term can benefit from use of the basin.protocol.
​
Projects and Properties
Active projects and properties we are working on and pursuing can be found in basin Notion with summary level details in Discord. Below is a thematic overview of the types of projects and properties that basin.global is pursuing. All projects are evaluated on their regenerative and sustainable capacity and assessed (as applicable) using the permaculture design principles and Core Benefits checklist (which includes carbon neutrality):
natural climate solutions
nature based solutions
carbon sequestration
high priority biodiversity
critical habitat
pristine conservation
green infrastructure
engineering with nature
wetlands and floodplains
wildlife migration corridors
endangered species protection
fossil fuel / O&G phase out
land restoration
land regeneration
brownfield/superfund
coal methane
historic preservation
adaptive reuse
urban heat islands
urban biodiversity
food deserts
Regional Climate Capitols
homeless shelters
public art
parks
open space
​
Process
How does basin.global work? As a DAO, basin.global is fluid and adaptable but coordinated. DAOs aim to move like a school of fish, flock of birds, a hive, a swarm, or a colony. Through mutual trust and respect, we operate with general consensus for speed and efficiency to create climate solutions that are rapidly deployable, exponentially scalable and easily repeatable.
Headwaters, Streams, Confluences and Tributaries
IRL.. Headwaters, Streams, Confluences and Tributaries make up a Basin; basin is no different. In our case, there are four phases to moving a project/property through the watershed. The Headwaters is where the ideas come from. Streams are where they pick up speed. Confluences are where they join and become specific. Tributaries are where they have volume and mass to cut canyons.
Headwaters (Ideation)
It all starts with an idea. What does your community need? What does the world need? If you could not fail, what would you do? But the thing is, ideas are worthless without execution. Anyone can post or propose a project in Discord, twitter, wherever. Ideas that pick up speed become Pitches (Streams).
Streams (Pitches)
Good ideas start as a pitch and get incubated and nurtured by the community. If the pitch gets traction, the specific deliverables and terms are negotiated with basinDAO to become a Proposal.
Confluences (Proposals)
Ideas/concepts for basin.global project that have made it thus far have faced scrutiny but have been refined and are considered to have real merit. They become a proposal that gets one final discussion and refinement to become a Confluence. The proposals are then voted on in an on-chain vote. If there is consensus on a project/property the funding and other resources are provided to the project sponsors to execute and hopefully continue to the sea as a Tributary!
Tributaries (Live Projects / SPV’s)
Tributaries are the approved projects/properties that are owned or operated by basin.global in conjunction with the project sponsor according to the deliverables and conditions in the approved proposal.
The process is iterative, circular, adaptive and mimics the cycles of nature.
​
Practical Considerations
As of this writing (12.2021) there are many practical items we have been and still are working on, almost ad nauseam. We are trying to “get it right” but are cognizant that DAO’s are a new way of doing things and there is trial and error. Also, the ReFi movement is rapidly emerging. In our commitment to building in public and iterating, here is where we are today on certain things. These are fluid and changing every day. Please contact TMO directly for the most up to date information.
​
Size and Scale
As both a real asset and crypto project, where does basin.global fit in the marketplace? Within five years (it was 10 years but due to the “convergence” as previously discussed this time goal has been shortened) the goal is to either have transacted or have a market capitalization of $10 billion. While at first glance, this may seem big for climate, carbon and nature. It may be for those sectors but not for crypto and especially real estate. Remember, basin.global is backed by real assets and the rights thereto but is also tokenized; we are playing in both markets. We use Doge and Shiba as an anecdote only; they are backed by nothing except meme power!
Crypto
​
Real Estate/Infra
​
Doge
$25,145,371,413
Blackstone
$283,000,000,000
Shiba
$18,556,397,537
Nuveen
$134,000,000,000
Near
$5,358,356,570
Fortress
$53,000,000,000
Celo
$1,249,342,524
Thor
$20,000,000,000
Klima
$372,475,837
Macquarie
$14,000,000,000
Regen
$148,621,257
ExchangeRight
$4,400,000,000
Date: 12/14/21
The D, the A, the O.
Histo… add
​
How Work Gets Done
Contributor Roles
Bespoke Projects
Entities
Capital Raises
Monetization
-howey test, profit etc
Financial Flows
Tokenomics
Here is  token structure.
(Add Incentives, value exchange, staking, lock ups, quadratic voting/funding, air drops, fair launch considerations, progressive decentralization, etc
Blockchain
Add energy usage
Open Source
See “license.” section below
Web3
Trend or here to stay
ReFi
Greater movement
Systemic Change
Add define what it looks like and how do we do it
Laundry List - add somewhere or explain
Biomimicry, permaculture, design thinking
faq.
Q: Do you have a Discord or Telegram?
Yes, we have a Discord. You can connect here: basin.global/discord
Q: How do I become a DAO member?
There are many ways to contribute and be a part of basinDAO. The full list is forthcoming. Stay tuned on twitter @basinDAO or in Discord for details. Or DM TMO on twitter.
Q: Will you have a token?
Yes, a governance token. We follow all applicable securities and disclosure laws.
glossary.
(adding terms here - Work In Progress)
gratitude.
This journey would not be possible without countless people and experiences. TMO would like to personally thank:
Seth Godin
Kim Stanley Robinson
AirMiners Community
Debbie Millman
Chase Jarvis
Austin Kleon
Ryan Holliday
Jack Sullivan
Will Reinhardt
Ongeleigh Underwood
Neel Blair
John Sanchez
Regen Network
Gregory Landua
#ReFi Twitter Community
CCIM Institute
Jim Smoot
Natalie Braxton
Tommy Polzin
Core Benefits Label Team
Hunter Hillman
Grant Trahant
Aspen Valley Land Trust
Tom Hicks
Chris Martin
Misti Schmidt
Chris Menges
Daniel Poynter
Shelby, Campbell, Mckenna
Hill’s, Harvey’s, Canovas
Wilderness Aware
Phish
Xavier Rudd
Zach Martin
Eric Cesnick
Peter Scott
Rob Schoetz
Guillaume Asselot
Dr. Fred Whims
Mom, Dad, Rob, Emily
The Rivers, Canyons, Mountains and Valleys
Brutus, Porter, Utah and Clover
And the countless people I have talked with and listened to (and who listened to me) who give their time generously
​
license.
In the world of the internet, concepts and ideas are everywhere. There are sayings such as “if you have an idea, that means others have it also” or “ideas are worthless without execution”. Several of the ideas and concepts herein are versions of other ideas. That is all anything is, one thing improved on and built on until built on again. It is really evolution in a different form.
In climate and carbon there is this ethos that “we are all on the same team” but since entering the space we have realized there is a stark difference between the “environmental movement and the climate business”. With lots of capital and people moving into the space, competition is fierce and there is lots of jockeying for position and market share. Such is human nature.
We believe in sharing our work and building in the open but also believe that many parts of our work are unique. We are looking at open source licenses from two angles. One is that all ideas should be free and shared. Think about what, for example, GPL, github and wikipedia have done for the world. The other is that many of us have kids and responsibilities and we must protect our ideas in order to support our families and lives.
What we have settled on is that anything that is shared publicly is licensed under Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal. Anything that is shared within Notion or other private settings are shared under CC BY-NC 4.0 for a minimum of 18 months with “progressive” transition to CC0 1.0 Universal. Other parts of the projects and basin.tributaries are private and not licensed and are considered proprietary under their own specific terms by separate written agreement. We encourage and plan on these private initiatives becoming public at some point but that will be up to the team members of that tributary.
​
legal.
We believe in self reliance and due diligence. Common sense is the best practice.
The information contained herein does not constitute an offer to sell, a solicitation of an offer to buy, or a recommendation of any security or any other product or service by basin.global or any other third party regardless of whether such security, product or service is referenced. Nothing in this website is intended to provide tax, legal, or investment advice and nothing herein should be construed as a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any investment or security or to engage in any investment strategy or transaction. basin.global does not represent that the information discussed herein is suitable for any particular investor. You are solely responsible for determining whether any investment, investment strategy, security or related transaction is appropriate for you based on your personal investment objectives, financial circumstances and risk tolerance. You should consult your business advisor, attorney, or tax and accounting advisor regarding your specific business, legal or tax situation.
